========
FY 2019:
========
1) To finish first, you must first finish. 
 (Note this the first Annual Report that I have seen, that starts with such an insightful quote!.)
2) India’s mortgage finance sector reported a flat 2018-19. During the same year, Aavas Financiers reported 30% disbursement growth. And growth in assets under management (AUM) by 46%. 
(Note the confidence in this statement.!)
3) And all we intend to do across our marathon journey of our existence is move from Point A to Point B.
Aavas is addressing a segment with a mortgage penetration of just "one percent". Through our sustained growth, we expect to enhance that penetration and grow sustainably year-on-year.
4) Our long-term road map: 
At Aavas Financiers, we have outlined a multi-year and multi-decade vision. We expect to grow revenues sustainably each
year across the long-term. We believe that the compounded impact of this would create substantial value.
5) Our approach: 
We believe that in a challenging business, the priority is to first finish.
This focus (as opposed to finishing first) will help us build a robust foundation. 
This robustness will be marked by a niche presence in a lending business, de-risking and investment in futuristic technologies.
6) Our discipline:
We believe that superior value-creation is the result of sustained market outperformance. 
At Aavas, this outperformance will not be derived from taking outsized bets. This outperformance will be derived from a focus to grow to the extent our Balance Sheet and priorities permit – no more, no less.

7) Eight Things to Know about Avvas Financiers.

    1) Background: 
    --------------
    Aavas Financiers Limited was incorporated as ‘Au Housing Finance Private Limited’ in 2011, as a private limited company. In 2013, the Company was converted into a public limited company and the name changed to ‘Au Housing Finance Limited’.
    Thereafter, in 2017, the name of the Company was changed to ‘Aavas Financiers Limited’.
    
    2) Our corporate philosophy:
    ----------------------------
    Vision: Enriching lives of people by enabling them to achieve their dream of owning a home: Sapne Aapke, Saath Hamaara.
    Mission: To empower and upgrade lives of low and middle-income customers by providing them accessible home loans and setting
    pioneering benchmarks in unserved and underserved markets.
    Values: Create customer delight with focus on ease and speed. Blend traditional ethics with modern outlook to create an environment of trust and transparency.
    Be responsive, professional and ethical in our approach towards customers.
    
    3) Focus:
    ---------
    The Company aspires to provide housing loans to customers belonging to the low and middle-income and self-employed segments in
    suburban and rural India. A large segment of India’s rural and semi-urban population is unserved or underserved by formal  financial institutions comprising customers without any credit history and we believe that this customer segment offers us significant growth opportunities and customer loyalty. We intend to focus on disbursing loans to underserved low and middle income customers primarily for the purchase and construction of single unit houses using unique appraisal methods. Aavas assesses these customers individually through differentiated means and provides customised financial solutions
    
    4) Reach:
    ---------
    Capitalising on the growing demand for mortgage finance coupled with the under-
    penetration in India’s housing finance sector, Aavas focuses on addressing under-served and un-served housing finance needs across Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Punjab. In
    2018-19, the Company spread its reach to Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and entered Punjab and Uttarakhand. We believe that these states combine a number of realities ideal for our business: rising incomes and growing aspirations among the rural and semi-urban under-served; a large number of individuals seeking to own their first homes and attractive contiguous markets.

    5) Workforce:
    -------------
    The Company comprises a team of dedicated individuals and qualified professionals like Chartered Accountants, Company Secretaries, Lawyers, Engineers and Software Developers possessing degrees from top technical institutions including IITs and MBAs from premier institutes like IIMs. The Company had 3,190 employees as on March 31, 2019.

    6) Listing:
    -----------
    The shares of the Company were listed on October 08, 2018 at National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) and BSE Limited (“BSE”). The Company enjoyed a market capitalization of H9,027.71 crore as on March 31, 2019.

    7) Management:
    --------------
    Aavas is led by qualified and experienced key managerial personnel, who are supported by a capable and motivated pool of managers and other employees. We believe that our management team possesses an extensive knowledge and understanding of the housing finance business and the expertise and vision to organically scale our business. The team also possesses diverse experience across a range of financial products and functions related to our business and operations. The Board of Aavas is chaired by Mr. Krishan Kant Rathi, an industry veteran with more than 27 years of financial services experience. Our founder, Managing Director and CEO, Mr. Sushil Kumar Agarwal, has been associated with the financial services industry for 18 years.  Our Co-founder and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Ghanshyam Rawat has over 23 years of work experience in finance, fund raising, treasury management, forex and interest risk management and mergers & acquisitions. Mr. Sunku Ram Naresh, our Chief Business Officer, possesses an experience in mortgage and FMCG distribution of over 20 years. Mr. Ashutosh Atre, our Chief Credit  Officer, has over 29 years of work experience in credit management.

    8) Performance:
    ---------------
    The Company reported profitable growth in 2018-19. While revenues strengthened 44%, profit after tax increased 89%, net interest margin was 9.32% and delinquent assets accounted for a mere 0.47% of the Company’s book.
    * 93,484 Cumulative housing units financed
    * < 10 Lakh Average ticket size
    * ~65% Book catering to self-employed customer segment
    * 75.5% Home Loan book
    * 210 Total branches as on March 31,2019
    * 9,027.71 Market capitalisation, March 31, 2019 (INR crore)

8) Consider the numbers:
India has approximately 260 million families. Only 10 million families have been covered by mortgage. This indicates a near 4% mortgage coverage in India. When you split this coverage, you get something more intriguing. Eighty per cent of families covered by mortgage figure in India’s 50 leading cities – a penetration of 15%. Nearly 1 billion people outside India’s top 50 cities account for the mortgage of 2 million homes – a 1% penetration. Aavas has selected to focus on an India marked by 1% penetration.Our bjective is to grow our business to the extent that we enhance this penetration to 2%.

9) Aavas is a retail-focused housing finance company that primarily addresses the financing needs of individual home builders. As an extension of this definition, we have resisted the temptation to invest in properties, to finance real estate builders, to engage in corporate loans or to finance large properties under construction.

10) At Aavas, we have popularised our conviction that ‘Customer bhagwaan hai’. When we first used this term, it sounded too much of a cliché for it to be taken seriously. Since virtually every company made this pronouncement, there was a danger that the term would not be taken seriously by our employees. We went one step ahead: we made it binding on our customer-interfacing executives to process applications within a stipulated period, failing which a pre-specified fine would be deducted from their monthly remuneration. When we extended this customer-protecting clause to implementation, the word went around with speed and I am pleased to state that the proportion of housing financing cases closed within the stipulated period has increased significantly.

11) Every executive knows well in advance what business needs to be generated from that location next year and the year after next, strengthening a long-term preparedness. Besides, this clarity also helps our executives plan down to their monthly targets as early as a couple of years away, liberating them from the stress of the unknown. As an extension, there is a greater selectivity in the nature of business to be addressed or avoided, strengthening our premium recall, quality of business and margins.

12) This statement could have been mere lip service; however, we selected to embark on decisive change: we created a fixed daily office schedule starting from 9:30 am to 6:30 pm. To eliminate the possibility of executives working overtime from home or office, we shut our IT system each evening, logging every single employee out of the system. The result has been an increase in family time, more fulfilled individuals and increased office productivity. By working less, we have demonstrated that it is indeed possible to deliver more.

13) Through a long-term approach in a long-term business, we are building Aavas as a human-centric enterprise where high people retention translates into distinctive knowledge capital, sectoral outperformance, sustained growth and enhanced value in the hands of
all our stakeholders.

14) The fact that Aavas did not close for a single day during the liquidity paralysis phase but reported record results – almost untouched by the prevailing sectoral crisis – was easily the highlight of our performance during the last financial year

15) We experience a successful year at Aavas. The Company reported profitable growth. Even as revenues increased 44%, profit after tax strengthened 89%. The sharp divergence of these numbers suggests that the Company strengthened its competitive position; the fact that since inception, the Company has reported only profitable growth indicates that it continues to do what it is best at in the best possible manner

16) There is another part of this answer: at a time when it was challenging for the sector to manage liquidity, we successfully mobilized H678 crore in the third quarter, strengthening our liability profile. We raised a seven-year rupee-denominated masala
bond of H200 crore from CDC Group, UK’s development finance institution, which can be listed on an international exchange, a precursor to being able to mobilize additional funds. We also executed Rs 323 crore assignment of other mortgage loans at 9.13% for which our average pool yield was 16.33%, generating a 7%-plus spread. Besides, we continued to maintain a positive ALM across tenures

17) How we distinguished ourselves from our broad sector in a challenging 2018-19
    • Most mortgage companies of our size could not raise additional funds; we mobilized an aggregate H2,144 crore through various instruments 
    • Most mortgage companies suffered weaker credit rating; our long term rating enhanced to “AA-/Stable Outlook” by CARE Ratings and reaffirmed short term credit rating to A1+ from ICRA and CARE Ratings.
    • Most lenders became cautious; we diversified our cost-effective long-term financing with 37 lenders; 89% of our borrowings were
    derived from term loans, assignment, NHB financing and cash credit facility and only 11% from the debt capital market (no commercial
    paper). 
    • Most housing finance companies froze investments in their business; we made a significant investment in 2018-19 in technology, management team and branch expansion.
    • Sectoral mortgage assets came under pressure; our 1+DPD remained an at attractively low 3.43% as on March 31, 2019 compared to 4.77% during the same period in the previous year.
18) Within this market, we have selected to be present in a niche that largely insulates us from the commodity segment. We provide housing finance to individuals building their own homes, where an attractive proportion of the individual’s funds has already been invested in the home (skin in the game) and our financing is for a property under construction into which the individual will move about a year.

19) Aavas selected to build resident competencies through direct employment (civil engineers, lawyers and technology professionals)
20) Aavas focused on solving customer problems and making their dream of home ownership a reality. Aavas focuses on providing  superior customer services that generate customer referrals.
21) Aavas moderated its net business risk through focused mortgage financing for low income customers, who derived funding benefits from Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojana, strengthening the Company’s alignment with national policy\
22) Aavas was adequately capitalized at a 65.4% capital adequacy ratio (as on March 31, 2019) compared with a minimum stipulated 12% as the NHB. (too much Capital)
23) Preference to women applicant, over 99% loan sanctioned have women applicant/co-applicant, Continuously making efforts to
reduce TAT to less than 10 days for loan sanction
24) The Company incentivized the successful address of loan applications within 15 days. The Company intends to reward improvements in portfolio health, making every credit officer an ‘entrepreneur’.
25) The Company’s branches were manned by executives recruited from those locations, enhancing a ground-level understanding of local market dynamics
